<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="ia.css"/>
  <title>iOS Apprentice, Seventh Edition</title>
</head>
<body class="segment-legal">


<h2 class="segment-legal">iOS Apprentice, Seventh Edition</h2>

<p>Fahim Farook &amp; Matthijs Hollemans. Copyright ©2018 Razeware LLC.
</p>
<h4 class="segment-legal">Notice of Rights</h4>

<p>All rights reserved. No part of this book or corresponding materials (such as text, images, or source code) may be reproduced or distributed by any means without prior written permission of the copyright owner.
</p>
<h4 class="segment-legal">Notice of Liability</h4>

<p>This book and all corresponding materials (such as source code) are provided on an “as is” basis, without warranty of any kind, express of implied, including but not limited to the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, and noninfringement. In no event shall the authors or copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages or other liability, whether in action of contract, tort or otherwise, arising from, out of or in connection with the software or the use of other dealing in the software.
</p>
<h4 class="segment-legal">Trademarks</h4>

<p>All trademarks and registered trademarks appearing in this book are the property of their own respective owners.
</p>
<h4 class="segment-legal">License</h4>

<p>By purchasing <i>iOS Apprentice</i>, you have the following license:
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>You are allowed to use and/or modify the source code in <i>iOS Apprentice</i> in as many apps as you want, with no attribution required.
</p></li>

<li>
<p>You are allowed to use and/or modify all art, images and designs that are included in <i>iOS Apprentice</i> in as many apps as you want, but must include this attribution line somewhere inside your app: “Artwork/images/designs: from <i>iOS Apprentice</i> book, available at www.raywenderlich.com”.
</p></li>

<li>
<p>The source code included in <i>iOS Apprentice</i> is for your personal use only. You are NOT allowed to distribute or sell the source code in <i>iOS Apprentice</i> without prior authorization.
</p></li>

<li>
<p>This book is for your personal use only. You are NOT allowed to sell this book without prior authorization, or distribute it to friends, coworkers or students; they would need to purchase their own copies.
</p></li>
</ul>
</body></html>
