{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
\f3\fnil\fcharset178 GeezaPro;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 1\'93Git is a version control system \'97 it allows you to make snapshots of your work so you can always go back later and see a history of the changes made to the project. Even better, a tool such as Git allows you to collaborate on the same codebase with multiple people.\
\
\
2- An 
\f1\b M
\f0\b0  means the file has been modified since the last commit and an 
\f1\b R
\f0\b0  means this is a file that has been renamed.\
\
\
3- With Auto Layout you create constraints that determine how big the views are and where they go on the screen.\
\
\
4-Constrain to margins, if it is checked. Each screen has 16-point margins on the left and right, but you can change their size. When \'93Constrain to margins\'94 is enabled you\'92re pinning to these margin\'94\
\
5-Per Apple\'92s recommendation, you\'92ve been making your outlets weak\'94\
\
6- Recall that you can use extensions to organize your source code. By putting all the UISearchBarDelegate stuff into its own extension, you keep it together in one place and out of the way of the rest of the code.\
\
7- \'93A protocol can have optional and required methods. If you forget a required method, you'll generally see Xcode complain, like you did above.\'94\
\
\
8- If your screen consists of just a UITableView, then it makes sense to make it a UITableViewController. But if you want to have other views as well, the more basic UIViewController is the option to go with.\
\
_______________________________________________________________________________\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \'93Chapter 33: Custom Table Cells\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
1- \'93A nib, also called a xib, is very much like a storyboard except that it only contains the design for a single item. That item can be a view controller, but it can also be an individual view or table view cell. A nib is really nothing more than a container for a \'93freeze dried\'94 object that you can edit in Interface Builder\'94\
\
\
2-\'93It gets a number of callbacks about the state of the app \'97 whether the app is about to be closed, for example \'97 and handling those events should be its primary responsibility. The app delegate also owns the main window and the top-level view controller. Other than that, it shouldn\'92t do much.\
\
1670 role of app delegate\
\
3- \'93The awakeFromNib() method is called after the cell object has been loaded from the nib but before the cell is added to the table view.\'94  1673\
\
\
4- \'93Tip: It\'92s always a good idea to call super.methodName(\'85) in methods that you\'92re overriding \'97 such as viewDidLoad(), viewWillAppear(), awakeFromNib(), and so on \'97 unless the documentation says otherwise.\
\'94\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 5-
\f3  
\f2 \'93Like
\f3  
\f2 a
\f3  
\f2 detective,
\f3  
\f2 the
\f3  
\f2 debugger
\f3  
\f2 lets
\f3  
\f2 you
\f3  
\f2 dig
\f3  
\f2 through
\f3  
\f2 the
\f3  
\f2 evidence
\f3  
\f2 after
\f3  
\f2 the
\f3  
\f2 damage
\f3  
\f2 has
\f3  
\f2 been
\f3  
\f2 done,
\f3  
\f2 in
\f3  
\f2 order
\f3  
\f2 to
\f3  
\f2 find
\f3  
\f2 the
\f3  
\f2 scoundrel
\f3  
\f2 who
\f3  
\f2 did
\f3  
\f2 it\'94
\f3 \
\

\f2 ______________________________________
\f3 \
\

\f2 1-\'93
\f3  
\f2 JSON,
\f3  
\f2 which
\f3  
\f2 stands
\f3  
\f2 for
\f3  
\f2 JavaScript
\f3  
\f2 Object
\f3  
\f2 Notation
\f3 .\

\f2 - \'93JSON is commonly used to send structured data back-and-forth between servers and clients, i.e. apps. Another data format that you may have heard of is XML, but that\'92s being fast replaced by JSON\'94\
\
2- \'93the JSON data represents a dictionary and inside that dictionary is an array of more dictionaries. Each of the dictionaries from the array represents one search result.\'94   1720\
\
3-\'93That\'92s all there is to it. You construct a URL to itunes.apple.com with the search parameters and then use that URL to make an HTTP request. The server will send some JSON gobbledygook back to the app and you\'92ll have to somehow turn that into SearchResult objects and put them in the table view. Let\'92s get on it\'94\
\
\
4- \'93In order to query the iTunes Store web service, the very first thing you must do is\
	send an HTTP request to the iTunes server. This involves several steps such as \
1- creating a URL with the correct search parameters,\
2- sending the request to the server, \
3-getting a response back etc.\
\'94\
5- A space is not a valid character in  URL , so it can be encoded as the + sign or as the character sequence %20\
\
}